Episode 2, Elizabeth.
When I was a teenager at Hemsworth College in the early 1990s, my best
friend was a boy called George, slightly nerdy and from a wealthy family.
And then, when we were all around sixteen years old, a new boy joined our school.
His name was Miki and he was from a small country called Ankhazastan.
You wouldn’t know it from his English though – he spoke as if he grew up in Buckingham Palace!
George quickly became great friends with Miki.
I think he was inspired by Miki’s charming nature.
He was just so self-assured.
George, of course, wanted all three of us to hang out together and be friends.
I was keen, but several of the other girls warned me.
People had quickly realised who Miki was, or rather, who his father was.
“He comes from some kind of backwards country.
His family all live in huge palaces while the common people starve.”
“It’s not even a democracy.
It’s communist or something, and they shoot people who complain about it.
And nobody is allowed to leave.”
So I decided to find out for myself – by asking Miki.
After classes, I found George and Miki sitting on the lawn behind the school building.
Miki was smoking a cigar, just as carefree as you like.
“You’re not allowed to smoke, you know,” I told him.
“ Elizabeth!” Miki exclaimed.
He was so handsome with his dark piercing eyes.
Maybe that’s why the girls didn’t want me to be friends with him.
They were jealous!
“Miki,” I said, “I’ve been hearing a lot about you.”
“Good things or bad things?” Miki asked casually.
“Well, err…,” I could feel myself falling victim to his charm,
“Just that, you know, your dad is a dictator and things like that.”
I giggled nervously, and George rolled his eyes and looked away.
I ignored him for now.
Miki turned and faced me.
“I’m an open book, Elizabeth.
Ask me anything you like.”
“Well,” I began, “Lydia said that you live in a huge palace while your citizens starve.”
Miki laughed and said, “Yes, we live in a palace, and yes, we have poor people in our country.
The same as your British Royal Family.
Our people are poor, yes, but starving?
No.”
“Yes, but…” I decided to try a different tack.
“Well, Vicky said that your country is supposed to be a communist country,
so you…, I mean, it’s hypocritical to be so rich and live like that.
And you don’t let people leave the country.
…According to Vicky, I mean.”
He paused for a minute.
He had the most beautiful eyes.
“ My goodness!” Miki exclaimed.
“It seems some of your friends need to brush up on their geography!
We’re not a communist country – we’re a kingdom, like Saudi Arabia
or Britain, in a way, but with a president instead of a king.
We’d love for all of our people to be rich, which is why we’re trying
to develop our oilfields – if we succeed, we’ll be richer than England!
“ And we’re quite a small country, so most people have never met anyone from Ankhazastan.
I suppose that’s where the rumour started that people can’t leave.
Of course they can!”
“I see…” I replied, half-convinced.
“Well, I’m glad we got that out of the way.
”
Miki smiled, then said cheerfully, “George told me that you like the pop group Toneboys.
Do you know I’ve met them?”
“ Yeah?” I said, perking up.
“ They performed at our country’s Independence celebrations.
Sit down and I’ll tell you all about it.”
He’d met the Toneboys?
All the talk about evil governments was forgotten, and I sat down, eager
to hear his stories and learn more about this fascinating new friend.